LaTeX: make contents, topic, and sidebar separately customizable (#12704)
sphinx-doc/sphinx: doc/latex.rst

    Default: ``\fboxrule``

.. important::

>    At 8.1.0 it became possible to style separately the :dudir:`topic`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Since Sphinx 8.1.0, it is now possible to style separately the :dudir:`topic`,
```

Author: Don't want to nit-pick, not native speaker but once I adopt ``Since`` shouldn't I drop the `now`?

Reviewer: Err.. yes, it sounds better (I'm also not an English native).

   contents_, and :dudir:`sidebar` directives, and each acquired new defaults.
   See :ref:`additionalcss`.
   The ``shadowsep``, ``shadowsize`` and ``shadowrule`` keys are kept for
   backward compatibility only.

``shadowsep``
    This legacy option sets the padding (same in all directions) simultaneously
    for the :dudir:`topic`, contents_, and :dudir:`sidebar` directives.

>     .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0 New separate defaults. See :ref:`additionalcss`.

Reviewer: I don't know whether it should be a versionchanged or a deprecated since they are kept for backward compatibility.

Also, I would separate 8.1.0 from "New":

```rst
.. versionchanged:: 8.1.0
   New...
```

Same obversation for the other `.. version*` directives that you added.

Author: > I don't know whether it should be a versionchanged or a deprecated since they are kept for backward compatibility.
> 

I will check that.
> Also, I would separate 8.1.0 from "New":
> 
> ```
> .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0
>    New...
> ```
> 

Formerly I think I used

```
.. versionchanged:: X.y.z

   description
```
and one can see many examples in doc/latex.rst.  Now I am very confused about how this directive is supposed to be used.

> Same obversation for the other `.. version*` directives that you added.

Author: All those ``versionchanged`` removed in next push, and a clearer explanation in "important" box before.

   set the foreground and background colors for the title as well as the
   LaTeX code for the icon.

> .. versionadded:: 7.4.0  Customizability of the :rst:dir:`seealso` and
>    :rst:dir:`todo` directives.
> 
> .. versionadded:: 8.1.0 Separate customizability and new defaults for the
>    :dudir:`topic`, contents_, and :dudir:`sidebar` directives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. versionadded:: 7.4.0
   Customizability of the :rst:dir:`seealso` and
   :rst:dir:`todo` directives.

.. versionadded:: 8.1.0
   Separate customizability and new defaults for the
   :dudir:`topic`, contents_, and :dudir:`sidebar` directives.
```

I know we can put the text just after the version, but I find it easier to read/review in the RST if we separate them both.

  The default is that all those dimensions are equal.  They are set to:

  * ``0.4pt`` for :rst:dir:`code-block`,
  * ``0.5pt`` for :dudir:`topic` and contents_ directive,
  * ``1pt`` for :dudir:`sidebar` directive,
  * ``0.5pt`` for :dudir:`note` and other "light" admonitions,
  * ``0.5pt`` for :rst:dir:`seealso` and :rst:dir:`todo` directives,
  * ``1pt`` for  :dudir:`warning` and other "strong" admonitions except
    :dudir:`error` which uses ``1.25pt``.

  .. versionchanged:: 7.4.0 Changed defaults for :dudir:`topic` and
     :dudir:`error`.

  .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0 Distinct from :dudir:`topic` defaults for

>      :dudir:`sidebar`.

Reviewer: Ditto

     vertically across admonition types on same page in PDF.  This is only a
     property of defaults, not a constraint on possible user choices.

>   .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0 Separate defaults for :dudir:`topic`, contents_,

Reviewer: Ditto.

  The defaults:

  * ``3pt`` for :rst:dir:`code-block` (since 6.0.0) and all corners,
  * ``8pt`` for all corners of :dudir:`topic`,
  * ``12pt`` for the bottom right corner of contents_, others use ``0pt``,
  * ``12pt`` for the top-left and bottom-right corners for :dudir:`sidebar`,
    ``0pt`` for top-right and bottom-left.
  * all radii set to ``5pt`` for :dudir:`note`, :dudir:`hint` and
    :dudir:`tip`,
  * ``0pt``, i.e. straight corners for all other directives.

  .. versionchanged:: 7.4.0 :dudir:`topic` and :dudir:`note`\ -like
     admonitions acquire (at least one) rounded corners.

  .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0 Separate defaults for :dudir:`topic`, contents_,

>      and :dudir:`sidebar`.

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: I will apply (lacking English word) return to start of line after 8.1.0 in one commit for all next

  * or two dimensions (separated by a space),
  * or two dimensions followed by the keyword ``inset``.

>   The x-offset and y-offset may be negative.  A negative x-offset means
>   that the shadow is on the left.  Whether positive or negative it extends
>   into the page margin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The x-offset and y-offset may be negative.  A negative x-offset means
  that the shadow is on the left.  The shadow extends into the page margin,
  whether the offset is positive or negative.
```

  * or two dimensions followed by the keyword ``inset``.

  The x-offset and y-offset may be negative.  The default is ``none``,
  *except* for:

>   - the contents_ directive: ``4pt 4pt``, i.e. the shadow has a width of

Reviewer: This might seem an overkill, but would it be possible to create a picture that displays the mdiffernt metrics, a bit like https://mirror.init7.net/ctan/macros/latex/contrib/geometry/geometry.pdf (page 3)? I think a picture would be easier to understand than a descriptive text. This can be done in a separate PR since you did not change the actual description (just put it in a bullet list).

Author: arrgghh... I am starting to think we should have used `longfbox` whose [doc](https://ctan.org/pkg/longfbox) already has nice pictures (sadly the package is broken for years because it was developed at a time `pict2e` defined a `\@tempdimd` but later dropped it) :smiley:.  Well, doesn't [CSS documentation sites](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/CSS/box-shadow) for HTML fit the bill already? The behavior of `box-shadow` is directly emulating it, with  a more restricted syntax, but the way "inset" keyword or negative dimensions impact result should be exactly as in CSS.  At least this is what I remember from when this was done.

.. _ellipse: https://ctan.org/pkg/ellipse

The following legacy behavior applies:

- For :rst:dir:`code-block` or :rst:dir:`literalinclude`, padding and
  border-width and shadow (if any) will go into the margin; the code
  lines remain at the same place independently of the values of the padding
  and border-width, except for being shifted vertically of course to not
  overwrite other text due to the width of the border or external shadow.

> - For the other directives, the
>   shadow (if on right) goes into the page margin, but the border and the extra
>   padding are kept within the text area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For the other directives, the shadow (if on right) goes into the page margin,
  but the border and the extra padding are kept within the text area.
```

The line split was a bit weird.

Author: note to myself "if on right" is weird, left shadow also is in margin, should be "horizontal shadow", to be checked

.. _ellipse: https://ctan.org/pkg/ellipse

The following legacy behavior applies:

> - For :rst:dir:`code-block` (or :rst:dir:`literalinclude`), padding and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For :rst:dir:`code-block` or :rst:dir:`literalinclude`, padding and
```

>   border-width and shadow (if one adds one) will go into the margin; the code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  border-width and shadow (if any) will go into the margin; the code
```

  lines remain at the same place independently of the values of the padding
  and border-width, except for being shifted vertically of course to not
  overwrite other text due to the width of the border or external shadow.

> - For all others than :rst:dir:`code-block` (or :rst:dir:`literalinclude`) the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For the other directives, the
```

     ``\sphinxstylecodecontinues``;    ``{\footnotesize(#1)}}``
     ``\sphinxstylenotetitle``;        ``\sphinxdotitlerow{note}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylehinttitle``;        ``\sphinxdotitlerow{hint}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyleimportanttitle``;   ``\sphinxdotitlerow{important}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyletiptitle``;         ``\sphinxdotitlerow{tip}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylewarningtitle``;     ``\sphinxdotitlerow{warning}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylecautiontitle``;     ``\sphinxdotitlerow{caution}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyleattentiontitle``;   ``\sphinxdotitlerow{attention}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyledangertitle``;      ``\sphinxdotitlerow{danger}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyleerrortitle``;       ``\sphinxdotitlerow{error}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyleseealsotitle``;     ``\sphinxdotitlerow{seealso}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyletodotitle``;        ``\sphinxdotitlerow{todo}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstyletopictitle``;       ``\sphinxdotitlerow{topic}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylecontentstitle``;    ``\sphinxdotitlerow{contents}{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylesidebartitle``;     ``\sphinxdotitlerow{sidebar}{#1}``

  .. note::

     To let this table fit on the page width in PDF output we have lied a bit

>      and the actual definition of, for example, ``\sphinxstylenotetitle`` is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     For instance, the actual definition of ``\sphinxstylenotetitle`` is:
```

\+ add a period after the `lied a bit` just before.

Author: note to myself "don't forget to add the period" after commiting suggestions

     ``\sphinxstyleliteralintitle``;   ``\sphinxcode{#1}``
     ``\sphinxstylecodecontinued``;    ``{\footnotesize(#1)}}``
     ``\sphinxstylecodecontinues``;    ``{\footnotesize(#1)}}``
     ``\sphinxstylenotetitle``; ``\sphinxdotitlerow{note}{#1}``

>      ``\sphinxstylehinttitle``; ``\sphinxdotitlerow{hint}{#1}``

Reviewer: Could you align the column? (namely align <code>\`\`\sphinxdotitlerow</code> with <code>\`\`{\footnotesize</code> from above)

Author: Done in next push.

     directive, with a final colon.  Wrap it as ``\sphinxremovefinalcolon{#1}``
     if this final colon is to be removed.

  .. versionadded:: 7.4.0

>      ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon`` LaTeX command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Added the ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon`` LaTeX command.
```

  .. versionchanged:: 8.1.0
     ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon`` now detects automatically if an icon is
     associated or not with the rendered element used as first argument.

  .. versionadded:: 8.1.0

>      ``\sphinxdotitlerow`` as alias to ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon`` with
>      a more appropriate name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Make ``\sphinxdotitlerow`` an alias to ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon``.
```

     if this final colon is to be removed.

  .. versionadded:: 7.4.0 The ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon`` LaTeX command,

>      (renamed at 8.1.0 ``\sphinxdotitlerow``, former name kept for backward

Reviewer: Should be a separate `versionadded` entry (you just added an alias).

Author: Well I was very tempted to get rid altogether of former name ``\sphinxdotitlerowwithicon``. It is not only that an alias was added, but the macro was extended.  Ok, I wlil take care of that.

Reviewer: Actually, I just wanted a separate entry saying that it was renamed in 8.1.0 and that the former name was kept for BC. Having the "renaming" marked inside the 7.4.0 "versionadded" was not what I would have expected (since it was something in 8.1.0)

Author: I agree with you, I will push a commit addressing this.

  .. versionadded:: 6.1.0
  .. versionchanged:: 6.2.0
     Colon made part of the mark-up rather than being inserted by the
     environment for coherence with how admonitions are handled generally.

- Environment for the :rst:dir:`todo` directive: ``sphinxtodo``.

>   It takes one argument which will is the localized string ``Todo``
>   (with a colon at the end; the default rendering will remove that
>   colon and put the localized string in its own colored title-row).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It takes one argument, namely the localization of ``Todo``
  (with a colon at the end; the default rendering will remove that
  colon and put the localized string in its own colored title-row).
```

  .. versionadded:: 7.4.0

> - The :dudir:`topic`, contents_ and :dudir:`sidebar` directives

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- The :dudir:`topic`, contents_ and :dudir:`sidebar` directives
```
